IG-11: Manufacturer's protocol dictates
I cannot be captured.
I must be destroyed.
Nevarro is a very fine planet.
And now that the scum and villainy
have been washed away,
it's very respectable again.
You do not cover your face.
You are not Mandalorian.
You are a Child of the Watch.
There is only one way.
The Way of the Mandalore.
Din Djarin,
have you ever removed your helmet?
I have.
Then, you are a Mandalorian no more.
How can I atone?
According to Creed,
one may only be redeemed
in the Living Waters
beneath the mines of Mandalore.
But the mines have all been destroyed.
This is the Way.
I swear on my name
and the names of the ancestors...
"I swear on my name
and the names of the ancestors..."
That I shall walk the Way
of the Mand'alor...
"That I shall walk the Way
of the Mand'alor..."
And the words of the Creed shall
be forever forged in my heart.
"And the words of the Creed shall
be forever forged in my heart."
This is the Way.
"This is the Way."
From this moment on,
I shall never remove my helmet.
"From this moment on, I shall never..."
Go! Go! Go!
Go!
Young ones, to the cave!
Get back. Get back!
I got you! I got you!
Take cover!
Cover them!
To the sky!
Go
All hands, go!
Get down!
You have removed your helmet.
What's worse,
you did so of your own free will.
You are no longer Mandalorian.
The Creed teaches us of redemption.
Redemption is no longer possible
since the destruction of our homeworld.
But what if
the mines of Mandalore still exist?
All was destroyed in the Purge.
Is this inscription not Mandalorian?
Where did you come upon this?
Jawas.
They came upon it by trade from a traveler
who claimed to have visited
the surface of Mandalore.
Then this relic only proves
that Mandalore's entire surface
has been crystalized by fusion rays.
But a traveler was able to retrieve this,
so perhaps, it is not poisoned.
If I visit the planet
and I can bring you proof
that I have bathed in the Living Waters
beneath the mines of Mandalore,
then by Creed, the decree of exile
will be lifted and I would be redeemed.
This is the Way.
Then I will see you again.
Welcome to Nevarro,
independent trade anchor
and Outer Rim Hyperlane port.
Please state the purpose of your visit.
Here to meet an old friend.
Greetings.
Welcome to the port of Nevarro,
gem of the Outer Rim.
Our esteemed High Magistrate welcomes you
and hopes that your stay
will be a prosperous one.
We invite you to visit
our shops and markets,
enjoy local delicacies,
marvel at the black lava canyons,
or soak in the geothermal springs.
A lot has changed around here.
Do you remember your old friend?
Mando!
I heard you were back,
but I didn't believe it.
Magistrate Karga.
That's High Magistrate Karga to you.
Come.
Let's catch up on old times.
It's so good to see you. Welcome back.
Doesn't even look like the same place.
I know, we've done a lot with it.
The citizens have been so instrumental
in making this all work, and look at this.
We are an official trade spur
of the Hydian Way.
Congratulations.
We've got a construction boom
going on in the city.
The belters are mining the asteroid fields
at the edge of the system.
There's a lot of money
to be made on Nevarro.
I can see.
I can set you up with a prime tract
right over by the hot springs.
You and the little one,
you can settle down,
you can hang up your blaster.
Live off the fat of the land.
Grogu.
Come again?
His name is Grogu.
Oh. If you say so.
Come, I wanna show you something.
Now, as I was saying,
there's a beautiful parcel available
right down here by the flats.
I appreciate the offer,
but I have some matters to look after.
Oh, I'm confused.
I thought you had completed your mission,
but you're still running around here
with the same little critter.
It's complicated.
I completed my quest.
He returned to me.
I removed my helmet,
and now I'm an apostate.
Which is all the more reason
for you to stay here with us.
Where you are from,
you may be an apostate,
but here, you'd be landed gentry.
Magistrate.
High Magistrate.
- Yes, High Magistrate. Apologies.
- Your timing couldn't be any worse.
But it's just that,
there's someone here to see you.
- It can wait.
- But it's pirates!
Pirates in the courtyard.
Get out of my way
or I'll split your circuits.
Oh, my stars.
Stand aside, droid,
don't you know who we are?
Come on, Vane.
That'll be enough of that.
Greef Karga, my old friend.
I knew you wouldn't insult us.
- Come, join us for a drink.
- Yeah.
Let's continue this conversation
back at my office.
This, this is a school.
Well, that explains
why she wouldn't let me inside.
I forgot, it was your cut of my boss's
treasure that built this saloon.
Pirate King Gorian Shard's name
is familiar to all in this sector.
Come, join me for a drink
back at my office.
We'll toast to your captain.
We drink here.
That is a school now.
I say it's still a bar.
Now, bring us a drink.
Is there a problem here, Magistrate?
Is there a problem here?
What do you think?
Not if you serve me a drink.
Not in my school.
You hear that, boys?
His school.
You paid us for murder
and mayhem inside these doors.
Sounds like you went soft.
You think so?
Try me.
Tell Captain Gorian Shard that Nevarro
is no longer friendly to pirates.
Now get outta here.
Get out of here, Vane. Now.
Sure you wanna let him go?
He'll let it be known
that Nevarro is respectable now
and not to be trifled with.
Have the service droids
scrub up out there.
Yes, sir, right away.
I gotta level with you, Mando.
I need a marshal.
What about Marshal Dune?
After she brought in Moff Gideon,
she was recruited by Special Forces.
And what came of Gideon?
Ugh. He was sent off
to a New Republic War Tribunal.
So... What do you say?
You ready to put on the stripes
and collect a healthy stipend?
You'd make a very fine lawman.
Why not request one from the New Republic?
The last thing we intend is to bow down
to yet another far-off bureaucracy.
No. Under my watch,
Nevarro will become
the first truly independent trade anchor
in this entire sector.
I can't serve as your marshal.
I have something pressing to attend to.
Apologies.
I didn't know you were here on business.
What can we provide?
I need him back.
IG-11 was destroyed on the lava river.
This is just a statue.
These are his parts, are they not?
I mean, what's left of 'em.
We were lucky to recover any of his parts
after he self-destructed.
I need a droid I can trust
to help me explore Mandalore,
and he's that droid.
Mando, we've got plenty of droids
around here, we'll find you one.
I guarantee it.
Let me give it a shot.
There.
He's hooked up to power.
Let's see if we can wake him up.
There you go.
IG-11:
Subparagraph sixteen-teen-teen
of the Bondsman Guild protocol waiver...
Immediately produce said...
The bounty is mine.
Asset to be terminated.
Terminate asset. Terminate asset.
Greef!
IG-11: Terminate asset.
- Mando, shoot it! Shoot it!
- IG-11: Terminate.
Now that's using your head.
I think he defaulted
to his old programming.
You think?
That's too big a job
for you to do by yourself.
Fortunately, Nevarro has attracted
the best droidsmiths of the Outer Rim.
They'll have IG back to his old self
in no time.
Are you sure they're up for it?
I don't think I can handle him
with all his limbs if things go scud.
Why don't you ask 'em for yourself?
Who?
The Anzellans.
What do you want?
No. Can't fix. No. No, no. The broken.
Uh... Okay.
The broken. It broke.
I don't understand. Do you speak Huttese?
Mando, he said he can't fix it.
That's no good, I need this one.
This one is my friend.
It not friend anymore.
Memory circuit broken.
He says the memory circuit is shot.
No more.
Well, put in a new one.
- No, no, no, no.
- Not work.
- Don't make new one. Very hard to find.
- No.
He said they don't make 'em anymore.
They're very hard to find.
- I got it.
- Buy new droid.
This one poodoo.
He says you should get a new one.
Can you fix it without the memory circuit?
Yes, but IG no think.
What if I find you the part?
Okay, now. Then no problem. We fix.
If you can get a new part,
he says he can fix it.
- No! No! No! No! No! No, down, down!
- No, Grogu.
- He's not a pet.
- No squeezie. Not squeeze.
Not squeeze.
Bad baby!
- Oh, he's a bad baby.
- Sorry about that. He's young.
Yeah, bad baby. Oh!
No, Grogu.
(OVER PA) Thank you
for visiting Nevarro, please make sure...
We hope to see you soon.
Keep IG-11 safe
until I get back with that part.
If the Anzellans can't find it,
I don't know who can.
Safe travels.
Being a Mandalorian's
not just learning about how to fight,
you also have to know
how to navigate the galaxy,
because you never know
where you might be headed next.
This here is your hyperspace map.
You determine your range
by looking at your fuel gauge.
And this...
...is your enemy proximity
warning indicator.
Hang on, kid, we got pirates.
(ON COMMS) Avast, Mandalorian.
You can't just sneak away
after cuttin' down
four of my brothers in cold blood.
We're Pirate King Gorian Shard's men,
now you'll answer to him.
Gorian Shard should stick
to hijacking and ransoming.
After him!
Three more.
Has anyone got eyes on the Mandalorian?
Not yet.
Bringing the Mandalorian to you, Captain.
Dank farrik.
They have a target lock on us.
Stop where you are, Mandalorian.
You're outgunned.
I have no quarrel with you, Gorian Shard.
Ha!
What a kind sentiment from a man
who just destroyed four of my fighters.
Surrender your ship
and I will spare your life.
Kid.
Never trust a pirate.
This is Kalevala.
It's another planet
in the Mandalorian system.
And that is a Mandalorian castle.
Bo-Katan.
It is Din Djarin.
I am here to join you.
There's nothing left to join.
What of your plans to retake Mandalore?
When I returned without the Darksaber,
my forces melted away.
Where is the stolen fleet?
Making their way through the galaxy
as mercenaries.
Do you still have the saber?
I do.
Then you lead them.
Wave that thing around
and they'll do whatever you say.
So you gave up your designs
to retake Mandalore?
Your cult gave up on Mandalore
long before the Purge.
Where were you then?
The Children of the Watch
and all the factions that came before
fractured and shattered our people.
Go home.
There's nothing left.
I am going to Mandalore
so that I may bathe in the Living Waters
and be forgiven for my transgressions.
You are a fool.
There's nothing magic
about the mines of Mandalore.
They supplied beskar ore to our ancestors
and the rest is superstition.
That planet has been ravaged,
plundered, and poisoned.
You said that the curse was a lie.
Make up your mind.
If you want to go to the mines,
be my guest.
They're beneath the civic center
in the city of Sundari.
Thank you.
And I will find out
if the planet is really poisoned.
Goodbye, Din Djarin.